# TSC Meeting December 18, 2018 @12PM MST

## Hangouts
The link for the meeting is: `https://hangouts.google.com/hangouts/_/doi.gov/jlaura`

## Agenda
- TSC Membership Role Call
- Question (M. Aye): Do we need a distinction between funded actors and voluntary participation in the TSC? I'm worried that the "responsible for" wording for things like documentation and/or code base is in principle appliclable to all TSC members, while I don't think it's fair that unfunded members should become responsible by default. What if a TSC member only ever wants to participate by doing A while B, C and D are also formally part of TSC members' responsibility? (I hope this question is clear enough to be discussed.)
- Question (M. Aye): How far is the Python API for ASC Core[ISIS3]? My question comes from my thoughts on forking Pysis and fixing its tests, dropping its Python2 support and some other things I don't like. But I don't want to redo things already working and it shouldn't overlap/interfer with the upcoming Python API.
- Responsibilities of TSC GH "Collaborators" (M. Aye)
- Versioning: We need to determine how best to version the software.
- Release RoadMap: [LINK](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/Release-Road-Map). We should discuss this document and make a decision about the release schedule.
