# ISIS TC Meeting November 19, 2019 @12PM MST

## [Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/j/289742081)

### Attending
 - Jesse Mapel
 - Ross Beyer
 - Robin Fergason
 - Jay Laura
 - Victor
 - Audrie
 - Stuart Robbins
New attendees
  - Mario D'Amore - DLR; Primarily uses ISIS to make basemaps and has future plans to do spectroscopy work
  - Andrew Annex - JHU; author of spiceypy; Primarily uses ISIS indirectly through ASP and other processing pipelines.

## Agenda / Notes
  - Action items from last meeting
    - Review the TC charter
    - Propose changes to the TC charter
    - Post an issue for TC membership
    - Respond to TC membership issue

Primary goal of this meeting is to discuss and agree upon a Charter.  We may not finish this task today, but getting a charter in place is our primary goal before performing duties as part of the TC.

  - Status of TC charter
    - [Robin's comments](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/57)
      - Do we want a chairperson?
        
      Having someone to run meetings and set agendas is a critical task.
      We may not need a formal Chairperson, however, to perform these duties.
      Arguments for not having a Chairperson - Feels more egalitarian and encourages a community voice.
      Having a Chairperson may also hand more power over to that group (e.g., if the Chairperson is also from the ASC). 
      Ross - based on experiences in the Planetary Software TSC, not having a Chairperson has worked well.
      Whomever has time takes on a role or task, rather than there being a formal Chairperson.
      Ross - it is easier to add a Chairperson to the Charter later, rather than taking it away.
      Reached the decision (by verbal consensus) to have no Chairperson for the TC.
      We will instead have someone who is tasked with organizing the agenda and running the meetings.
      The Charter will be modified accordingly.
      
      - TC responsibilities vs ASC management responsibilities
      
      Note Robin's comment in the Issue section. 
      
      ASC needs to retain the abiltiy to meet the software needs of the ASC.
      The TC could advise on whether that capability should be merged with ISIS main or be released publicly alongside ISIS.
      If ISIS is moving in a direction outside of step of the TC, then the ASC should pause.
      
      **Ross** - Given the discussion, there may be some items in section 5 of the charter (bulleted list) that may need to be removed.
      ASC has control over our people, and there are more resources (dollars) to write and change ISIS code in the ASC than any other body.
      We don't seem to be in any contention or disagreement on this topic.
      We do need to write the charter carefully to describe these boundaries.
      **Jesse** - The TC could say something like: We want to see ISIS released at this cadence, have this functionality, and meet these needs.
      The ASC then has authority over what TC recommendations it is able and willing to meet.
      It would then be the responsibility of the Open Source commmunity to meet the other needs the TC has identified.
      
      **Victor** - I think the clarity up front in the documentation is vital. 
      If you make it clear enough so that it's not just a glorified user group or common group, but where you allow the community to be inovlved (but not necessarily the final decision-making authority), it would be very positive and help move the sofware forward, with the help of the community.
      
      **Victor** - Say, the TC recommends a change to an application, and someone at the ASC disagrees with.
      How would that unfold?
      **Jay** - I would like to put the onus on the community. If the ASC does not build that application, then someone in the community could develop that application.
      Even if the functionality is outside the scope of the ASC, the ASC could support someone in the community developing that functionality.
      
      **Jesse** - One of the underlying philosophies is unanimous consent.
      The guiding relationship between the ASC and the TC is that we should both be in agreement of the direction.
      If we are in disagreement, then that is unhealthy for all parties - both the ASC and the TC.
      
      **Victor** - In terms of clarity, we need to make opportunties for how the community can impact ISIS development clear.  
      For example, opportunities for changes to ISIS that would impact the LROC team is welcomed and the LROC team is excited and willing to be part of the discussion and the software development.
   
      **Jay** - The ASC has been very explicit that we welcome that kind of input from the community.
      The TC is in a position to provide guidelines for how the community might provide that input.
      That would be hugely helpful to the ASC management.
   
      **Jesse** - Robin (and Jay) are explicitly on the TC so that there is open dialog and regular communication between the TC and ASC managment, and help insure that both groups are on the same page with one another.
   
      **Jay** - Can we hear from others on the TC who haven't yet had a chance to speek?
      Mario, Audrie, Stuart Robbins all commented that this discussion has been important and helpful, and they have nothing to add.
   
      **Jesse** - Since we seem to be in philosophical agreement, I would like to shift the discussion to the text in the Charter.
      
      Let's start with Section 5, the Responsibility of the TC.
      Location of the ISIS repository - The repository currently exists under the USGS_Astrogeology organization.
      Ross recommends changeing the language of the bullet to be high-level in that there should remain an Open Source repository for the ISIS code base and the TC should have influence over the existance of that repository.
      
      What about documentation and coding standards? - The TC could have the ability to set a policy that new code will not be accepted unless it fits these documentation policies and coding standards.
      It is not reasonable for the TC to say that all code in the ISIS codebase must be reformatted to meet a specific coding standard.
      
      **Ross** - The TC does not give orders.
      It gives recommendations and individuals decide whether to abide by those policies or not.
      
      **Jesse** - Then the TC does have the abiity to reject the inclusion of code that does not conform to the policy defined through the Merging of Pull Requests, etc. 
      
      How do we want to continue editing the Charter?
      - **Jay** - we have been successful with PRs in the Planetary Software TSC. Large PRs are very challenging to merge.
      - **Ross** - The list of responsibilities is critical. If we can get this right, we can agree on the rest of the document.
        We should all think about and comment on the Bulleted list in Section 3.
      

## Discussions for next meeting
  - Discuss each of the Issues opened regarding the Charter and resolve them.
  - The development process/defining operation
  - Other comments

## Action Items
  - Think about and comment on the Bulleted list in Section 3 (All)
  - We will open issues for each section and make comments (All)
  - Update the Members documentation (Robin)
  - Set an agenda and organize the next meeting (Jesse)
 
## Next Meeting
  - December 17, 2019 @ 12:00 - 1:00 pm MST
  
