# ISIS TC Meeting December 17, 2019 @12PM MST

## [Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/j/655749457)

### Attending
 - Jesse Mapel
 - Stuart Sides
 - Jay Laura
 - Robin Fergason
 - Michael Aye
 - Ross Beyer
 - Kristin Berry
 - Kris Becker
 - The other Stuart (Robbins)
 - Audrie Fennema
 - Andrew Annex


## Agenda / Notes
  - Action items from last meeting
    - Think about and comment on the Bulleted list in Section 3 (All)
    - We will open issues for each section and make comments (All)
    - Update the Members documentation (Robin)
    - Set an agenda and organize the next meeting (Jesse)

  - Operations
    - Do we go through each issue and discuss them?
      - **Jesse** - That would take too long. We should keep as much discussion asynchronous as possible. If there are things that cannot be resolved in asynchronous discussion or are very important, then we can bring them up at a TC meeting.
    - What belongs in an issue and what belongs in a PR?
      - Discussion and brainstorming happen in issues.
      - Proposed changes happen in PRs.
      - Usually, work starts in an issue and then a PR comes once agreement is reached.
    - What is the current process for PR reviews and merging?
      - Current requirements are:
        - 2 approving reviews
        - Open 24 hours
      - We should change the time to 48 hours to give people more time
      - What if someone from ASC opens a PR and then 2 people from ASC approve and merge it?
        - ASC is actively trying to not move unilaterally right now.
        - If something gets quickly approved and merged and someone has an issue with it after it is merged, they can go back and submit another PR that modifies the changes from the first.
        - No need for tight requirements on representation in PR submission and review right now.
      - More requirements would lead to more friction.
        - Right now we have a lot to get done, so focusing on moving quickly.

  - Status of TC Charter
    - Sections 2-5 had many comments.
    - Other sections seem to be resolved in issues.
      - If people have comments on sections 1, 6, 7, 8, or 9 they should post those on the corresponding issue and we will discuss at next meeting.
    - Goal is to start getting the charter voted on next week.
      - How we vote is TBD.

  - [TC Charter section 2](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/61)
    - Most of the discussion was based around the ASC Management having special powers under the TC Charter.
      - Discussion in this and other issues arrived at removing the ASC Management from the TC Charter in general and having the TC be responsible for supporting contributors regardless of their affiliations.
      - If there are conflicts between multiple contributors or their affiliates about ISIS, then the TC mediates and has the power to make final decisions.
    - **Jay** - The TC is a service organization (as Ross pointed out) that supports the contributors and users.
      - This places a lot of power in the hands of the current contributors which is effectively the ASC.
        - One of the highest priorities is getting more contributors from other organizations.
        - The ASC has explicit funding to support this.
    - Does the ISIS TC set technical direction?
      - **Jay** - The TC should set scope and the contributors should then set the direction in line with that scope.
      - **Ross** - What is the difference?
      - **Jesse** - The TC sets policies and what broad functionality should be in ISIS. Then the contributors write code that is in line with the functionality and follows policies.
      - **Robin** - We should add some text explaining this, with definitions, to the charter.

  - [TC Charter section 3](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/62)
    - The ASC Management needs to be removed from this section.
    - What does the ISIS TC do if they don't set technical direction? What is the difference between scope and technical direction?
      - **Ross** - the TC make decisions on directions but someone else determines the implementation.
      - **Jay** - Scope of the software is what things should be in ISIS.
      - **Jesse** - The entire ISIS TC does have the knowledge to determine exactly what is needed. The ISIS TC does have enough knowledge to determine the broad needs. Individual users and contributors have the knowledge to determine exactly how things should work and what exactly they should do.
        - For example, the ISIS TC knows that ISIS needs to be able to work well with a variety of different surface and shape models. Meanwhile, OSIRIS-REx and Kris Becker know that ISIS needs to be able to work well with specifically high resolution TIN shapemodels to support small bodies work.
    - What if ASC/the current contributors disagree with something?
      - If there is a disagreement between contributors, then the TC has final say on things.
    - What happens if someone who isn't a current contributor submits a PR?
      - Then the contributors (currently ASC) will review and merge the PR in accordance with the contributing document.
      - The ISIS TC has complete control over policy documents like the contributing document.

  - [TC Charter section 4](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/63)
    - Ross proposed a change here.
        - There was no response besides some thumbs up emojis.
        - Ross should submit a PR for this change.

  - [TC Charter section 5](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/64)
    - There is still uncertainty about what technical direction is.
      - We should continue this discussion asynchronously and try to have a solid definition.
    - **Jesse** - The ISIS TC taking on all of these listed responsibilities immediately is intractable. We should gradually move responsibilities from the ASC to the ISIS TC.
      - We need a way to denote which responsibilities are currently being done by the ASC and which are being done by the ISIS TC.
        - The person that writes the PR for this can decide how to do this.
        - We should not actually hide the responsibilities if the ISIS TC is not doing them right now.
  - Should we combine all of these changes into one big PR?
    - It is generally better to use multiple isolated PRs for this.
    - Goal is to have all PRs merged 1 week out of next week so people have time to review the charter before final voting.

  - [Dropping GCC4 Support](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/3566)
    - ISIS is currently compiled and tested on Ubuntu 18, Fedora 28, and CentOS 7.
      - Ubuntu and Fedora use GCC7
      - CentOS 7 uses GCC4
      - Binaries compiled with GCC7 are not compatible with GCC4.
      - Conda-forge, the main provider of ISIS3 dependencies, recently switched from GCC4 to GCC7.
    - The ASC currently provides special builds of some third party dependencies that are compatible with GCC4.
      - Because conda-forge changed, the ASC would have to provide GCC4 compatible versions of third party dependencies if we move to new versions.
      - The ASC does not want to be providing third party dependencies.
        - the ASC has work on the books right now to reduce the number of third party dependencies they serve.
    - For these reasons the ASC would like to stop supporting compiling with GCC4.
      - ISIS can still be installed and run on CentOS7, or any other system that uses GCC4, but it could not be built from source.
        - When multiple OSs were supported with the same build in the past, there were small problems that cropped up.
        - OSIRIS-REx currently compiles on CentOS 7 and would have difficulty moving away from it.
    - The ASC doesn't need to ask the ISIS TC if they should do this.
      - This discussion is very related to the previous discussion about how much the ISIS TC can direct contributors.
    - Is this purely a developer problem?
      - Compiling on CentOS7 is a developer problem.
      - Installing and running ISIS built on a different operating system could be a user problem.
    - This seems to have been prematurely elevated to the ISIS TC.
      - Concerned parties should try to work this out more before bringing to the ISIS TC.
    - Ran out of time, further discussion should occur on the ISIS issue.
      - If there is contention, then it should be brought back up.

## Discussions for next meeting
  - Finalizing the TC Charter

## Action Items
  - Post comments about TC Charter sections in the github issues created previously.
  - Submit PRs with changes based on discussion. Need to be merged 1 week out from next meeting.
  - Submit a PR with a definition of technical direction and start refining it.

## Next Meeting
  - January 9th 12 MST
