# TSC Meeting March 12, 2019 @12PM MST

## [Hangouts Link](https://hangouts.google.com/hangouts/_/doi.gov/jlaura)

## Agenda
- Python wrappers for ISIS3 applications
- Using ISIS with other packages
  - Installing ISIS alongside the scientific Python stack
- Community communications
- Is the upcoming API-breaking update time for a new name?
  - In other words, should ISIS 4.0.0 be <something_else> 1.0.0?


## Notes

### Python Wrappers for ISIS3
* Ross has finished his initial work on [kalasiris](https://github.com/rbeyer/kalasiris)
  * Will release a 1.0 soon
  * Abstract for the data workshop
  * Pip / conda installable
* Kelvin tweaked pysis as well
  * Fixed tests
  * Pushed to conda-forge
  * Forked onto astro
  * accepted upstream on pysis! First merge in years.
  * What inspired this? Merging M. Aye’s PR that addressed an issue that @Kelvinrr was having.
* Is it bad to have two of these, suddenly?
  * No
  * kalasiris is Python 3+ only
  * lots of folks seem to use pysis, so updates there are good
* Interesting pysis architecture decisions when looking at pysis vs. kalasiris
  * We should talk about these items in an abstract
  * Jay should rtd
  * Discussion on the differences of the packages - probably outside of the scope of the TSC. For us, knowing 2 packages exist as a wrapper to ISIS3 is good. Will have an abstract at PDW4.
  
From a TSC perspective: This was an issue and the community addressed the issue. Yay!

### ISIS3 w/ Other Packages in conda
* ASC has a proposal in the FY20 IAA to directly address version pinning and snowflake builds. 
* ASC maintain 15 snowflakes that are not in conda-forge. 
* Issue: We have existing environments that have dependency conflicts with the ISIS env.
* This is solvable currently by setting ISISROOT and ISIS3DATA. 
### Community communications
* Announcement in the PEN newsletter! Ross noticed!
* We have gotten one external question on astrodiscuss.
* OREx responded to RFC3 - Jay needs to push
* RFCs are staying open until at least after LPSC
* RFC3 is the biggy here
* Communication issues with RFCs - these are not made decisions, but we need to ensure that the community understands that these are not made decisions
* Learning on our side to make sure that these are clearly ‘requests’ for comment
* Learning on the community side about the process
* Jay - in the LPSC handout, include a short section on the RFC process and the ‘not a made decision’; astrodiscuss; github; git issues
* [DPS Newsletter](https://dps.aas.org/newsletters) - Newsletter for the Division of Planetary Sciences, a scholarly society, these folks are users of ISIS. Jay send submission to: Anne Verbiscer, DPS Secretary (dpssec@aas.org) 

### API Breaking Changes
This is a result of reading RFC3. The change will trigger ISIS4. 
* Is this the moment to change to 1.0?
* Or do we make API breaking changes and keep incrementing until this process settles down? Once the settle happens, then we then go ahead and rename?
* Consensus was for the latter.
* What is the urgency to move away from the ISIS name? Has the socio-political pressure changed in the past few years?
  * Unknown
  * This could be a wonderful thing for someone in the community to write an RFC on.

### Spiceypy
Does it make sense to get this somewhere, into an organization? How can we support long term maintenance of the library?
Ask to bring this into ASC (with Andrew retaining full control, just to help maintain as appropriate). 
No one voicing major concerns about this
Do we have a place where python planetary items go? What is the status of planetarypy? - Let’s talk with @michaelaye about this next meeting.



### Attending
Ross Beyer, Summer Stapleton, Scott Akins, Kelvin Rodriguez, Jay Laura

### Action items
Touch base with michael re: schedule - J (Done)
Touch base with Andrew @ LSPC if possible - J/R (Done)
Touch base with Michael re: planetarypy - J/R 
LPSC RFC, astro comms, etc. - J (Done)
Trent - let’s have a technical get together. (Done)
We can schedule something TSC related, how about later in the week. Let’s plan on early Thurs. Lunch. - J (Ad hoc - Done)

### Next Meeting
April 9 @12 MST


