# TSC Meeting February 12, 2019 @12PM MST

## [Hangouts Link](https://hangouts.google.com/hangouts/_/doi.gov/jlaura)


## Agenda
- Applications and Testing
  - We recently pushed all of the additional code for the ASC Core[ISIS3] applications into the main ISIS3 library. Should this code be in a separate library along with the application code?
  - Starting a testing policy working group.
  - See [Issue](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/600) for the more details.
  - See [Wiki](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/Writing-ISIS3-Tests-Using-Gtest-and-Ctest) for some background on the work that led to this.
- How do we want to number release candidates?
  - See [last meeting's](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/TSC/blob/master/meetings/2018-12-18.md) Release Roadmap discussion.
- Types of contributions
  - What is a feature change? What is a bug fix?
  - What should feature change logs look like? Last meeting we discussed a way to flag changes as feature changes and how that will impact version numbers. We should use this to generate high-level feature change logs for users.
  - Do we want to impose requirements on contributions that fall into different categories?
- RFC Process
  - We have a number of open RFCs currently and need a process whereby RFCs are closed (either merged or closed unmerged).
    - Where are RFCs being promoted?
      - ASC internal emails blast
      - astrodiscuss.usgs.gov
      - astro git org
      - PEN?
    - What is a reasonable amount of time to keep an RFC open?
    - What process works to have a motion for final comment period? See the [rust rfc process](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs#what-the-process-is)
- Changes to TSC charter
  - Require all TSC members to be present before new members can be voted on
  - See [Issue](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/TSC/pull/19/files/0894515693fabe2003b0fbc6dbc68b69da6bdaf6#diff-cb867c02a1e550f32e09f9e0b70d6808L50)

## Notes

Because the governmnet shutdown lasted so long, this meeting will serve as the January and February meeting.

### Attending
Ross Beyer
Kristin Berry
Jay Laura
Summer Stapleton
Kelvin Rodriguez
Jesse Mapel
Scott Akins

### Applications and Testing
- Should we split application logic into another library?
  - Keep in same repo, but distribute core APi and apps/app library separately
  - Why would you not do this?
  - Post RFC
    - Hash out technical details
    - Increased transparency and decision making
  - Need to figure out naming and versioning
    - 3.6.1 change was only app logic changes, does the core API library version tick up?
- Testing policy working group
  - Goals would be
    - Create policies to help improve transition to new testing
    - Come up with short-term and mid-term goals in the transition
  - People are already discussing this, can that be formed into a working group?
    - If people are interested, then a list will be presented at next meeting and the working group will start

### RFC Process
- Currently have 3 RFCs posted
  - Template based off Rust langauge RFCs
  - [RFC1](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/RFC1:-Documentation-Delivery)
  - [RFC2](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/RFC2:-Release-Process)
  - [RFC3](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/RFC-3:-Spice-Modularization), posted during the TSC meeting
  - Once closed, they will be archived
- Where do these live?
  - Currently on the ISIS github wiki along with a discussion issue
  - Once closed, archive as a markdown file on the TSC repo
  - Should they move to [astrodiscuss](https://astrodiscuss.usgs.gov/)?
    - Having separate issue and github wiki is a pain
    - Different parts of the community will be on github and discuss
      - Can we add ORCID iDs as an O-auth for astrodiscuss? Potentially google as a fallback.
    - Just have a stickied post with links to github
      - Maybe lock comments, maybe don't
- How are these promoted
  - Right now just internal ASC promotion
  - Posting to PEN
  - Potential posting to [astrodiscuss](https://astrodiscuss.usgs.gov/
  - No one will discover these as just wiki posts on github
  - Can Ryan Anderson, ASC com lead, promote these
- How are these closed
  - What's a reasonable amount of time to keep them open?
    - Typically RFCs have a built in timer
    - Allow commenters to propose starting a final comment period timer
      - People can propose the timer they think is appropriate

### Changes to TSC charter
- Can we use asynchronous voting?
  - Probably
  - Collect vote at TSC meeting. Absent members can vote on the PR.
- Why change?
  - Concerns about everyone not being engaged
- Just need to provide opportunity for everyone to vote, doesn't need to require full attendance.
- Change to allow for all to vote if present, but allow non-present until the next meeting to vote.
  - Vote tallies:
    - In favor: Jesse, Summer, Ross, Jay
    - Not present: Michael
    - Jesse will post a PR with the change and solicit a vote from Michael

### RC versioning
- If there is a spec then follow that
  - [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) has this defined
- Jay will the update the RFC based on the semantic versioning spec
- FYI: ASC is funding 3/4 RC builds prior to the 3.7.0 release of ISIS
- Version numbers for two libraries
  - Should the whole repo have the same version number?
  - Should the version number be specific to each distribution?
  - Decide at a later date

### Types of changes
- This is a hard problem to figure out ahead of time
- Requirements on different types of contributions?
  - Testing will figure part of this out.
  - Breaking API changes requires RFC
  - For right now, no changes for requirements on feature/bug modification
    - We will see what comes out
  - What about changes that impact API v changes that impact applications
    - Any change that breaks compatibility is a breaking API?
      - We consider the ISIS application interfaces as part of the ISIS API.

### Communication
- Should we talk to users at the Planetary Data Workshop?
  - Who would stand on stage?
    - Put the names of everyone on the TSC on this
  - We are changing in a way that we think is good for the community, so we should tell them about it.

### Python API From Last Meeting
- It would be nice to make easy Python calls to ISIS applications
  - pysis has a very heavy handed approach
  - In FY20 ASC plans to continue test migration
  - This is an easy value-add for the testing
  - Should this be a fork of pysis?
    - pysis does a good job of using introspection to be invariant to ISIS changes
    - pysis is broken right now :(
  - What is the timeline people would want this in? What does it need to do?
    - Ross has half-baked something to do this. It uses python subprocess.
  - Some of this already exists under the [PDS work at ASC](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/PDS-Pipelines).
  - Let this solidify before we super formalize it.
    - Something will be created because people need it.
    - Once it wants to become more formal, an RFC can be submitted and from there, the TSC can address it.
      - This can also handle that there are a handful of things trying to do this right now.

## Discussions for next meeting
- Python wrapper for ISIS3 applications
- Discuss using ISIS with other packages
- How do we communicate what is available?

## Next Meeting
- Regular meetings March 12th, noon MST
- Some sort of meeting at LPSC
  - Punting to Trent Hare & Ryan Anderson
