# ISIS TC Meeting September 8, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending

- Jesse Mapel
- Kris Becker
- Stuart Robbins
- Jay Laura
- Ross Beyer
- Robin Fergason
- Audrie Fennema
- Kristin Berry
- Andrew Annex
- Lauren Adoram-Kershner
- Stuart Sides
- Victor Silva
- Adam Paquette

## Agenda / Notes


- Action Items from last meeting
  - Jesse will review the contributing document and start an issue with what needs to be updated on it
    - Already updated, nothing to do here for right now.
  - Ross will post on astrodiscuss about the data area versioning and transition
    - [Posted](https://astrodiscuss.usgs.gov/t/versioning-isisdata/457) with a response from Jay.

  - 1 year LTS
    - USGS Astrogeology dev input
      - ASC can execute the mechanics of an LTS model.
      - ASC does not believe that this is a solution that meets the needs as understood.
      - Unclear how an LTS model helps all users? This helps a limited number of people in a very specific way:
         - This does help small projects
         - This does help projects on a 1 to 1.5-year cycle
         - This does not help active missions/users that want a very short turn around
         - This does not support long life pipeline users
      - ASC developers are concerned this is a process change that may or may not meet stakeholder requirements. Having better defined requirements would allow the TC to determine what user requirements are.
      - A requirements document (possibly partitioned by user type) from the ISIS TC would support development of a plan. Should this happen in this group of in a small team drawn from the TC?
         - Potential requirements to address:
           - Release cadence
           - Release stability
           - Release lifecycle (when is a release considered unsupported?)
           - Backporting project contributions
         - ASC has a notes document it can share with a group, should one be stood up
         - It is likely that there will be different requirements for different user groups
          - Nothing will work for everyone
          - Possibly a collection of solutions to improve this for as many user groups as possible while not hindering other groups.

    - release group charter
      - Requirements to be determined by the release working group on a per user type basis
        - How do these requirements meet user needs? User stories and/or narrative justification.
          - Small, a few sentences, user stories
        - Release cadence
        - Release stability
          - There are not bugs?
          - I don't need to update often?
          - Doesn't break current processes
            - Can I re-run my pipeline and get the same results
            - Intended differences
            - Unintended differences
            - Can I make an informed decision about whether or not I should upgrade before doing it?
          - Does it install without problems
          - Can I get bug fixes without getting new features that I don't want?
          - Let's see what different users mean/want for stability
        - Release lifecycle (when is a release considered unsupported?)
        - Backporting project contributions
        - Integrating project contributions
      - Should the release group get input from users outside of the TC
      - When should the release group report back to the TC?
        - A few months
      - Open an issue on the ISIS_TC repo for TC members & people involved in these discussions to contribute user stories.
        - Open the issue to collect user stories for a month
      - Group membership
        - Kris Becker
        - Victor Silva
        - Jesse Mapel
        - Audrie Fennema
        - Maybe an individual science user
        - Maybe a small team user

  - ISIS issue bot
    - Alive
    - The big wave of issue closing is complete

  - Two old issues on the ISIS_TC repo
    - #95
      - closed
    - #89
      - On Jay's to do list
      - Post on issue if you are a TC member and do not want to be on the mailing list


## Discussions for next meeting

- Action Items from last meeting
  - Jay will create an issue to collect user stories related to releases and updating
    - Everyone will post their user stories on the issue
  - Jesse and Victor will reach out to a few scientists to contribute to the release working group

- ASC FY21 roadmap
  - Issue on ISIS_TC repo for collecting questions

## Action Items

- Jay will create an issue to collect user stories related to releases and updating
  - Everyone will post their user stories on the issue
- Jesse and Victor will reach out to a few scientists to contribute to the release working group

## Next Meeting

- October 13th @ 12pm MST
