# ISIS TC Meeting April 14, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/j/99654346119)

## [Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hrT3HvHiQIP5jKiHsaeOLq2IRIdUKkM3ipbVXUd9ci8/edit?usp=sharing)

### Attending
 - Ross Beyer
 - Jesse Mapel
 - Stuart Robbins
 - Andrew Annex
 - Jay Laura
 - K.-Michael Aye
 - Kris Becker
 - Kristin Berry

## Agenda / Notes
 - Action Items from last meeting
   - Add landing at .gov website, can redirect to github. Jesse will ensure this gets assigned and scheduled (ASC)
     - Trying to find a time it can get worked on
   - Respond to [boilerplate issue](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/3741) (all). Robin and Jay will write USGS ASC response.
     - License is merged
     - Boilerplate has been “decided on” but not PR’d
     - Standard header template would be nice
     - Issue remains open until all of the header files have been updated
     - Need an authors/contributors list
   - Post TSC app issue on ISIS_TC (jesse)
     - [Issue posted](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/105)
     - Open for 1 more week (4/21)
   - Create project status and plan document for [RFC4](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/RFC4---Migration-of-ISIS-Data-to-Git) (ASC)
     - RFC wiki page was updated.
     - Issue was updated to indicate the new status.
     - [RFC4](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/RFC4---Migration-of-ISIS-Data-to-Git) and [5](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/RFC5-Remove-old-LOLAGRAIL-SPKs) are now closed and have been merged/done
   - Provide comments on RFC#4 status and plan by March 30th (all)(Stuart S.)
     - Discussion happened on the issue
     - USGS is hosting in accordance with DOI standards (basically S3)
     - Other parties are welcome to mirror. USGS cannot mirror it elsewhere.
     - Astrogeology is constrained to DOI policy and doesn’t really have influence on it
     - Can non-USGS employees push to the DOI S3?
      - TBD, this is still unclear
     - Regulations are related to the fact that data is NASA
       - There is policy from the Executive that determines how data generated from Public funds has to be served.
       - DOI interpretation of this policy is what guides how Astrogeology can serve it.
     - Could host scripts that download all of the data and stage it for use instead of hosting the data itself
       - Kris has some scripts that OREx uses that he may be able to share.
     - How does this relate to SPICE web service?
       - Funding requests are going in from Astro to go that direction

 - Open issues
   - Jay will do [#89](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/89)
   - [#54](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/54)
     - Can this be closed
     - How do people apply for membership?
     - There are currently no instructions for people

## Discussions for next meeting
 -

## Action Items
- Add landing at .gov website, can redirect to github. Jesse will ensure this gets assigned and scheduled (ASC)
 - Come up with a way for people to apply to the TC (Jesse)
 - Generate a rough Authors list (Andrew)
 - Look at issue [#94](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/94) and [#95](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/95) (all)


## Next Meeting
 - May 12th @ 12pm MST
