# ISIS TC Meeting February 11, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/j/168139350)

## [Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kb_eYLhWRJwnyN9yazGUHmWY0t5EWSEf0MX9NWrr_tY/edit?usp=sharing)

### Attending
 - Audrie Fennema
 - Jesse Mapel
 - Robin Fergason
 - Jay Laura
 - Ross Beyer
 - Andrew Annex
 - Kris Becker
 - Mario D’Amore
 - Stuart Robbins
 - Victor Silva

## Agenda / Notes
 - Contributing documents
   - Kristin shared some documents for updating the ISIS documentation
   - Changes and reviews in PR on ISIS_TC. Needs to be merged into the ISIS repo
   - Do not merge: Looking for feedback, but is not complete or ready to be merged.
   - Does Kristin’s documents cover what people want more clarification on
     - Is there a difference for OSX vs Linux?
     - Differences on OS10.15 Catalina. ASC is at 10.13 still, 10.15 is not cleared for DOI yet.
       - Defaults to Zshell instead of BASH. Can be changed back and ISIS works.
       - Switch to 10.14 or explore and document 10.15 changes?
       - Conda doesn’t like it.
       - 10.15 locked down security model poses problems
   - Contributing code documentation exists. Non-ASC contributors (read Kris) are going to try working through it.
     - Needs to explain how to make changes that cannot be backwards compatible
   - Identify Good First Issues
     - Spiceypy is looking for contributions from new people. What should we look for in ISIS good first issues.
     - Look for things that don’t need huge knowledge overhead
     - Documentation and tutorials
     - Maybe application code because it is isolated

 - Currently the API is both the library API and the application API
   - The vast majority of people use the applications
   - Who uses the library API? Do we want to support that?
     - ASP uses the sensor model API
   - Some packages split the code. ISIS is not there yet.
   - Major version is going to change a good amount. Need to make sure we’re communicating WHAT is changing between major versions.
   - What is the cadence for major version increments?
     - Increases maintenance costs
     - What about a LTS model? People are living long term in some versions already.
     - Are we causing issues for consumers by being too volatile?
       - How do we define this?
       - de430 update caused an issue for people updating data, but not version.
       - ASC developers are more able to continually work on ISIS than other developers.
       - CMake was a large change that caused hiccups for some.
       - Is the 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, … release cadence causing people problems?
         - Individual changes are causing problems for people, not the release speed.
       - Change logs are posted on astrodiscuss.
         - Could post them else-where too.
         - Could be on the repo itself too.
     - Data versioning is needed to help people not live on the bleeding edge.
   - LROC and Ross keep both new and old versions around.
     - Some users at LROC are using 3.5.2 still.
     - There is a large number of people still using 3.5.2 though.
     - The ASC doesn’t port bug changes back to 3.5.2.
     - The ASC may not be able to keep its rync server up. DOI security regulations are forcing this.

 - The RFC process
   - There are too many places to go find information.
   - Missions want to be able to check in with ISIS every once in a while, but then be able to go back to their other work.
   - Tell people, tell them again, tell their friends, tell their dog, tell them a third time
   - Maybe have an update center on the ISIS README.
     - Link to more detailed information
   - Could also be at isis.astrogeology.gov
     - Only ASC can push to the .gov website
     - Google likes the .gov better than the github site.
     - Could re-direct .gov to github.io website.
     - Converting the old website could be a pandoc or Hugo thing
   - Make the link to github bigger on the .gov website

 - Root schema location in the docs has problems.
   - Building individual app docs is problematic
   - Could be a CMake vs Make system

 - The disclaimer in each header file is USGS ASC specific.
   - What needs to be done with these headers?
   - Could change to a few lines that refer to the main License for the repo.
   - PRs have a check box that says you are attributing to the public domain.
   - Do we even need stuff in  headers? Good for when files start floating away.
   - Is ASC agreeing to maintain that code based on the current boiler plate? Maybe
   - Remove everything about commiting to maintain the code.
   - The current header boilerplate is invalid
   - What to do for right now? Robin and Jay need to discuss this. Put a PR in and we’ll go from there.

 - Applying to the Planetary Software TSC as a top level project
   - Postponed to the next meeting.

## Discussions for next meeting
 - Applying to the Planetary Software TSC as a top level project

## Action Items
 - Create a landing page with information about what’s going on with ISIS (Jay Laura)
 - Make issue on ISIS repo to update the header boilerplate (Kris Becker)

## Next Meeting
 - March 10th @ 12pm MST
 - Watch out for Daylight Savings Time
