# ISIS TC Meeting January 9, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/j/515823262)

## [Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18g2v2UiMu1lWbSJ9na6SkDldhhPqUtBCFnzXWarLux8/edit?usp=sharing)

### Attending
 - Jesse Mapel
 - Stuart Sides
 - Jay Laura
 - Robin Fergason
 - Ross Beyer
 - Kris Becker
 - Kristin Berry
 - Audrie Fennema
 - Michael Aye

## Agenda / Notes
 - Finishing the charter
   - PRs for some sections were posted
     - One was merged
     - Merge all as no one disagreed
   - PR for section 5 was not created
   - How do we approve the charter
     - Things are approved as they have been merged
     - Whatever is in the Master branch is the approved charter
     - Everything except section 5 is accepted
       - Once PR is merged it is accepted

 - How long can PRs stay open with 1 approval before they just get accepted?
   - We don’t have a document that describes this process

 - What to do next
   - Start brainstorming a list
   - Contributing document for ISIS
   - Contributing document for the ISIS TC
     - Move PS TSC documents over (Ross)
   - Review code of conduct
   - Improve the documentation and methods around contribution, particularly from new contributors.
     - May need to be a set of documents
     - Maybe a start to finish tutorial from nothing
     - Maybe a best practices document
   - Coding and documentation standards
     - Distinction between coding standards and style guide
     - Application documentation needs to be more consistent
 - Testing for people outside the ASC
   - Documentation on how to get started with testing
   - Multi-stage testing, API level, then app level
   - Documentation on existing testing
   - Ask Jay to give a presentation about everything the ASC is doing to help support testing

 - Prioritizing
   - Are there easy things we can knock out?
     - PS TSC documents
   - Contribution is the most discussed topic
     - Some of this will take a while to figure out: test data, writing the full document suite
   - Start writing documents as non-ASC contributors start working
   - Start with easier documents
     - How to update documentation
   - Start external contributor discussion document on astrodiscuss
     - Kris has already posted some questions
   - How to contribute from “I have a mac/linux machine” document is a good start for code contributions
     - Kristin has something like this already

 - People are interested in testing out the current process
   - Kris is going to get started on some development
   - Michale is interested in doing some testing

 - Next meeting
   - Having a regular day would be helpful
     - Second Tuesday of the month at 12 MST
     - If a large portion of the TSC cannot make a meeting, then we change it
   - February 11th 12 MST

## Discussions for next meeting
 - Contributing documents

## Action Items
 - Jay will post section 5 PR
 - Ross will migrate documents from PS TSC to ISIS TC
 - Kristin will PR a markdown document into ISIS with quick start for contribution
   - People interested in contributing will read and review Kristin’s doc
 - Everyone will review the code of conduct after Ross migrates the PS TSC one

## Next Meeting

 - February 11th 12 MST
