# ISIS TC Meeting March 10, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Zoom Link](https://zoom.us/j/919720087)

## [Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j0iul5zrJIcNXiUKm7ZQhKa6VjV6IsrHaYcC9vTNVsA/edit?usp=sharing)

### Attending
 -

## Agenda / Notes
 - Action Items from last meeting
   - Create a landing page with information about whatâ€™s going on with ISIS (Jay Laura)
   - Make issue on ISIS repo to update the header boilerplate (Kris Becker)

 - Applying to the Planetary Software TSC as a top level project

 - Dealing with situations where a change must be made in a short timeframe
   - See [RFC4](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/RFC4---Migration-of-ISIS-Data-to-Git)
   - See [PR#3728](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/pull/3728)

## Discussions for next meeting
 -

## Action Items
 -

## Next Meeting
 - April 14th @ 12pm MST
