# ISIS TC Meeting July 14, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending
- Jesse Mapel
- Victor Silva
- Andrew Annex
- Kris Becker
- Audrie Fennema
- Ross Beyer
- Jay laura
- Krisin Berry
- Michael Aye
- Kelvin Rodriguez
- Lauren Adoram-Kershner
- Kaitlyn Lee
- Austin Sanders
- David Mayer
- Stuart Robbins
- Robin Fergason
- Stuart Sides
- Tim Giroux

## Agenda / Notes
- Action Items from last meeting
  - JLaura will open a PR on the ISIS3 repo with a draft policy / discussion and then go from there
    - Opened [ISIS #3951](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/3951)
  - JLaura, next retro discuss the LTS model and release velocity; RBeyer will open an issue on the TC repo to get this discussed
    - Opened [#115](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/115)
  - JLaura will PR in the meeting notes
    - Done
  - AAnnex can add a PR that updates the ISIS PR template
    - Push to next meeting
    - Indicate that people need to add their names to the Author.rst document
  - JMapel can add to the release docs to have the authors list can be updated
    - Done
  - JLaura can check with zenodo to see about getting the authors file updated correctly when we do a release. He will determine what needs to be done manually and can then update the release procedure docs.
    - [ISIS #3950](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/pull/3950)
    - Discussion on the PR
    - Related to how do I cite [ISIS #3949](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/pull/3949)

- Long term support & release velocity
  - Issue for discussion [#115](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/115)
  - Current status
    - Every 3 months a feature release happens (all changes in dev, bug and feature)
    - As bug fixes are made, bug fix releases happen
    - Bug fixes are back ported to the last feature release's code base
    - USGS is doing support work every 3 months, so bug fixes releases have sort of synced up with feature releases because of this
  - Individual scientists
    - Many people consume via ASP or other things
    - Stacking conda environments doesn't work as well as would be liked
    - Updating regularly is challenging with other code stacks
    - Concerned about updating causing inconsistency in their projects
  - Missions & Pipelines
    - **Overlap between LTS versions give teams time to shift from LTS to LTS**
    - **Keeping up with the release velocity has been challenging**
      - Users are unsure if upgrading is safe
      - Validating every release is too time/resource intensive
    - In house developer helps, but looping back to the public repo has been challenging
    - Ensuring continuity is very important
    - Science validation is a concern because of limited funding and time
    - Want to stay with a version for >1 year
      - If we offer 1 year, does that help missions that want more than 1 year of LTS?
        - Sometimes yes and sometimes no
      - The missions spread across the spectrum of how much support they need because of how funding and missions phases work
      - There is a variety of mission lengths
        - Many of the small body missions can only last for a few years
        - Martian and Lunar missions can orbit for a decade or more
    - Sometimes need to go back to much older versions to redo old work
  - External Dev
    - In house developer helps can help with immediate mission needs
      - looping back to the public repo has been challenging
  - API consumers
    - Need more input
    - Basically just ASP, see Ross's issue
  - Long term support model
    - Every few releases a  LTS version is blessed
      - I.E. 4.6 is LTS, 4.7 is not, 4.8 is LTS
    - Bugs (or maybe just critical bugs) are back-ported to the last LTS version (or potentially all active versions)
      - A bug found between 4.7 and 4.8 would be back ported to 4.6, but not 4.6
      - A bug found between 4.8 and 4.9 would be back ported to 4.8 and 4.6 (depending on overlap between LTS windows)
    - Questions
      - Time windows
      - Number of active LTS versions
      - What gets back ported
    - Operating Systems are the stability end of the LTS spectrum
      - More stable than ISIS is right now
    - LTS models
      - Blender - continuous minor release
      - QGIS - 1 yr LTS, quarter minor release
      - AstroPy - 2 yr LTS, variable minor release
      - ISIS is more modular than most of these packages
        - Mission pipeline tools are often separate
    - Python does longer feature release cycles and doesn't do LTS
      - Feature additional process is very robust
    - Bug fix changes and feature changes can both cause issues
      - This is partially user psychology
      - Bug fixes with broad-reach may be more "features"
    - Back porting
      - Bug fixes can dramatically change outputs across the package
      - Different teams operate at different scales
      - Different teams have different uncertainty bounds
    - Data changes
      - Whole other can of worms that needs to be discussed
    - Is there a guarantee that LTS is "always" right?
  - Make swapping ISIS versions easier
    - Update to the new version and if it doesn't validate quickly then move back
    - Cannot be everything for everyone
    - How can we facilitate compromise
  - Release Candidates are not getting downloaded
    - [RC download numbers](https://anaconda.org/usgs-astrogeology/isis/files?channel=RC)
    - How can we make get more engagement
  - Changes between versions is unclear
    - See [ISIS #3941](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/3941) for more discussion

- Issue lifecycle
  - Comments from Jay [ISIS #3951](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/3951)
  - Postponed to next meeting, we likely will not get to this until September


## Discussions for next meeting
- 1 year LTS model
  - Specific implementation details!
- Issue lifecycle
  - Comments from Jay [ISIS #3951](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/3951)
  - We probably won't get to this until September

## Action Items
- Andrew Annex will updates the ISIS PR template to prompt new contributors to add themselves to the AUTHORS.rst file

## Next Meeting
- August 11th @ 12pm MST
