# ISIS TC Meeting October 13, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending

- Jesse Mapel
- Stuart Robbins
- Jay Laura
- Audrie Fennema
- Michael Aye
- Andrew Annex
- Victor Silva
- Lauren Adoram Kershner
- Adam Paquette

## Agenda / Notes

- Action Items from last meeting
  - Jay will create an issue to collect user stories related to releases and updating
    - Everyone will post their user stories on the issue
    - create https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/124
    - Feedback from 6-10 users
      - Mixture of stories and people voting existing stories
    - Not a lot of mission users
      - Direct outreach
      - Some additional folks have said they would respond but haven't yet
    - Want more input
    - Consider the expertise of different user groups and their ability to work around things
      - Most feedback is from expert users
    - How to get more feedback from a braoder group
      - openplanetary
      - twitter
      - email
      - PEN
        - repost
      - PAGs
      - Facebook

  - Jesse and Victor will reach out to a few scientists to contribute to the release working group
    - Jesse still needs to reach out to ASC scientists
    - Emerson is willing to participate

- ASC FY21 roadmap
  - Issue on ISIS_TC repo for collecting questions: https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/125
  - How does this relate to the TC
    - Does the TC set priorities for the work? No.
    - This is a list of things that the ASC wants to contribute to the project
    - The TC determines the process by which these things will (or will not) come into the project.
    - The ASC is using traffic and responses on issues as indications of what the community wants.
  - Many people have larger technical ideas
    - Github issues are one way to handle this, but they is an issue with scale
    - A collection of larger ideas would be helpful for people seeking funding to contribute
    - TC sets out rules and processes for how to collect these and contributors provide them

- JMars has some Friday coffee time where community members can talk with developers
  - Are people interested in this?
  - ASC could move some support funds around to do this.

## Discussions for next meeting

- Action Items from last meeting
  - Reach out for more input on release stories
    - Michael: post in the PEN & send text to Stuart R
    - Stuart R: post in Planetary Scientist FB group
    - Audrie: touch base with HiRISE and CaSSIS teams
    - Victor: touch base with LROC team
    - Jesse: touch base with ASC and twitter
  - Release WG
    - Jesse: Get more people to participate in the releases WG
    - Jesse: Kick off release WG

- Collecting "epic" changes
  - examples:
    - OpenCV
    -

## Action Items

- Reach out for more input on release stories
  - Michael: post in the PEN & send text to Stuart R
  - Stuart R: post in Planetary Scientist FB group
  - Audrie: touch base with HiRISE and CaSSIS teams
  - Victor: touch base with LROC team
  - Jesse: touch base with ASC and twitter
- Release WG
  - Jesse: Get more people to participate in the releases WG
  - Jesse: Kick off release WG

## Next Meeting

- November 10th @ 12pm MST
  - Daylight Savings Time is end November 1st, check your timezone!
- AGU is coming up in December. Discuss at next meeting.
