# ISIS TC Meeting November 10, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending

- Andrew Annex
- Audrie Fennema
- Robin Fergason
- Jay Laura
- Kris Becker
- Ross Beyer
- Stuart Sides
- Victor Silva

## Agenda / Notes

- Action Items from last meeting
  - Reach out for more input on release stories
    - Michael: post in the PEN & send text to Stuart R
      - no updates
    - Stuart R: post in Planetary Scientist FB group
      - no updates
    - Audrie: touch base with HiRISE and CaSSIS teams
      - got in touch with both, hirise+cassis was posted.
    - Victor: touch base with LROC team
      - LROC, monthly team meeting nov 11th will be posted that day
      - Collecting input from entire LROC team including Emmerson
    - Jesse: touch base with ASC and twitter
      - Set out internal e-mail
      - Posted on astrogeology twitter
      - Didn't seem to get any more input

- Release Working Group
  - Hasn't started working yet
  - Do we have enough information?
    - Uncertain if we do
    - Uncertain if we will be able to get more
    - There are still people working on writing stories
      - Kris & LROC are known people still writing
    - The working group should decide if they have enough
      - If they do, they should go ahead and move forward prior to reporting
  - Should stories be from user or developer perspective?
    - Separate stories for each perspective/persona
    - We want to support both developers and users

- Collecting "epic" changes
  - examples:
    - OpenCV
  - lacking context bump to December meeting

- Governance for ISIS
  - ISIS is moving through TSC
    - Track progress [On the TSC repo](https://github.com/planetarysoftware/TSC/issues/113)
      - Decision making model needs to be clarified
      - Code of Conduct is still a dead link
      - Contributing depends upon code of conduct
  - Need to update the application and clarify how the ISIS TC works

## Discussions for next meeting

- Action Items from last meeting
  - LROC release stories
  - Kris release stories
  - TSC application update

- Release Working Group

- Collecting Epic Changes
  - How do we propose, discuss, and evaluate large scale changes to ISIS?
    - Examples of such changes:
      - redoing the ISIS website and documentation
      - Creating a C interface for ISIS
      - Separating the Library and applications
      - Introducing a deprecation policy
  - Currently:
    - RFCs
      - Wiki page with accompanying issue
      - Done before work starts
      - Accept/reject mechanism is unclear
    - Pull Requests
      - At what point does a pull request need an RFC?
      - What about feature branches?
      - Work has to be completed for discussion to start
  - How do other software projects handle this?
    - OpenCV uses [Evolution Proposals](https://github.com/opencv/opencv/wiki/Evolution-Proposals)
    - Python uses [PEPs](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0001/)
  - What do we want out of such a process?

## Action Items

- Victor
  - LROC meeting the 11th, user & dev stories to contribute by next meeting
- Kris
  - Submit stories for release working group
- Jesse
  - Kick off release WG
  - TSC application governance language, update app to reflect reality.
  - Provide more context for collecting "epic" changes


## Next Meeting

- December 15th @ 11:30am MST
- AGU runs December 1-17 with most of the content being December 7-11.
  - Could push back to the 15th, beyond that we run into holidays.
  - Victor not available on 8th, some not on 15th (Ross), but 11:30am MST (arizona) on 15th works, seems like it

