# ISIS TC Meeting June 9, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

## [Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YBAU5nVI4A2SNNr0DVAtSdOVp-sYjZyL8882tws3EhQ/edit?usp=sharing)

### Attending
 - Jesse Mapel
 - Ross Beyer
 - Kris Becker
 - Victor Silva
 - Andrew Annex
 - Stuart Robbins
 - Audrie Fennema
 - Kristin Berry

## Agenda / Notes
 - Action Items from last meeting
   - Add landing at .gov website, can redirect to github. Jesse will ensure this gets assigned and scheduled (ASC)
   - Come up with a way for people to apply to the TC (Jesse)
   - Generate a rough Authors list (Andrew)
   - Look at issue [#94](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/94) and [#95](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/95) (all)
   
## Notes
 - Application to planetary software is continuing
 - The redirect on the landing page is going to happen this week
 - Contributors list is PRed in a done
 - Contributing guidelines are still not updated. We need a mechanism to keep these up to date
 - AAnnex can add a PR that updates the PR template
 - JMapel can add to the release docs to have the authors list can be updated
 - JLaura can check with zenodo to see about getting the authors file updated correctly when we do a release. He will determine what needs to be done manually and can then update the release procedure docs.
    - Zenodo linting is sad
    - Ross knows about the things
    - This is going to be manual :(
    - Down the line, automated on PR, this would be nice to have. Also good for continuous release (the ultimate goal).
    - Automation of the authors file isn’t too bad; need to handle duplicate authors using different handles/e-mails
 - Author ordering
    - Probably not alphabetical
    - Project lead, alphabetical contributors
    - Be explicit in the authors.rst that the first name is likely not the person doing all the good work
- Lifecycle of issues
    - We do not have a policy document at this point. Having a policy document would be a nice thing to have
    - Someone open a PR with the policy document describing the life cycle
    - We do not need to be prescriptive of the process, we need a set of guidelines on what/when/how things are pruned
    - Options:
      - Reachout to the original poster and ask about the current need
      - Close with a note and then ask the poster to reopen if this is still an issue (enhancements)
      - How do we handle bugs?
         - Other communities are +1 on issues that are of interest. We don’t see this.
         - A date based flush point is an option
         - A person trying to replicate and then pinging back is an option
      - What are the goals?
          - Promote participation
      - Moving forward:
        - Leave bugs
        - Go with a date based policy
        - Is this a one time thing?
        - Newer issues are perceived to have higher value by the developers
        - This isn’t specifically a count issue; this is a resource constraint issue
        - We need to engage the users better on enhancement requests to help them define the relative value of the enhancement request. This is a going forward thing.
        - JLaura will open a PR on the ISIS3 repo with a draft policy / discussion and then go from there
        - JLaura, next retro discuss the LTS model and release velocity; RBeyer will open an issue on the TC repo to get this discussed
        - JLaura will PR in the meeting notes
        
## Discussions for next meeting
 - Long term support, release velocity
 - Issue lifecycle

## Action Items
    - JLaura will open a PR on the ISIS3 repo with a draft policy / discussion and then go from there
    - JLaura, next retro discuss the LTS model and release velocity; RBeyer will open an issue on the TC repo to get this discussed
    - JLaura will PR in the meeting notes
    - AAnnex can add a PR that updates the PR template
    - JMapel can add to the release docs to have the authors list can be updated
    - JLaura can check with zenodo to see about getting the authors file updated correctly when we do a release. He will determine what needs to be done manually and can then update the release procedure docs.

## Next Meeting
 - July 14th @ 12pm MST
