# ISIS TC Meeting August 11, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending
- Jesse Mapel
- Andrew Annex
- Stuart Robbins
- Stuart Sides
- Audrie Fennema
- Kristin Berry
- Jay laura
- Michael Aye
- Adam Paquette
- Ross Beyer
- Lauren Adoram-Kershner
- Mario D Amore
- Victor Silva
- David Mayer

## Agenda / Notes
- Action Items from last meeting
  - Andrew Annex will updates the ISIS PR template to prompt new contributors to add themselves to the AUTHORS.rst file
  - [ISIS PR 3964](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/pull/3964)
  - Related discussion about the Zenodo authors file
    - [ISIS PR 3950](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/pull/3950)
    - Not in the 4.2.0 release
    - Will be tested in 4.2.1
    - Code Meta is another standard that is close to the Zenodo file

- 1 year LTS model
  - One version each year is blessed as the LTS version
    - Pick a version when we decide to start with this and then go in 1 year increments
  - What does back-porting look like?
    - Bug fix PRs are cherry-picked from the dev branch onto the LTS version branch
    - A bug fix release is created off of the LTS version branch
  - What gets back ported?
    - Current is developers decide if something is a bug fix or if it is an enhancement
    - Each issue should be labeled as a bug/enhancement
      - Once the PR comes in the PR contributor and the reviewer need to check that it is still a bug fix or feature enhancement
    - Once the PR is merged into Dev, there will be another PR cherry-picking into the LTS branch for bugs
      - The bug fix PR contributor is responsible for doing the cherry-pick and opening a new PR onto the LTS branch
      - Update to contributing document to outline this process for contributors
    - Do we want to back port all bug fixes?
      - The more bug fixes we back port to the LTS version, the more likely we introduce new bugs into it
      - We can label "critical bugs" that get back ported, all other bugs don't get back ported
      - Right now we don't need to do this, just back port all bug fixes
      - You lose some benefits of the LTS model this way
  - Release cadence and process
    - Current process
      - 4 feature releases per year (roughly January, April, July, September)
        - Only happens if there is a new enhancement
      - Release candidate 1 month before feature release
      - USGS does 4 support sprints each year between feature releases
        - These result in 4 bug fix releases
        - For right now, USGS would like to stay with doing 4 support sprints each year
    - Do we stick with 4 feature releases a year?
      - This is the momentum carried forward approach
      - Keeping release candidates is good
        - Can we swap a feature release for a longer release candidate for the LTS version?
        - There is some amount of support in the community for trying out release candidates
        - Is 3 months enough time?
        - Installation and upgrade process is a hinderance to people testing RCs and switching between versions
        - Broader messaging around the annual RC would help drive engagement
        - USGS can schedule support work between RC and full release to help support people testing it

- Issue lifecycle
  - Comments from Jay [ISIS #3951](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/3951)
  - Disussion on the issue has been good. TC doesn't need to get involved.
  - If a contributor decides the TC needs to get involved they should open a PR to add this to the next meeting agenda and it will be discussed.

## Discussions for next meeting
- 1 year LTS
  - USGS Astrogeology dev input
  - Feature release cadence
  - Bug fix release cadence
  - Final plan and implementation schedule
    - Committee to write this?

## Action Items
- Jesse will review the contributing document and start an issue with what needs to be updated on it
- Ross will post on astrodiscuss about the data area versioning and transition

## Next Meeting
- September 8th @ 12pm MST
