# ISIS TC Meeting May 12, 2020 @12PM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

## [Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YBAU5nVI4A2SNNr0DVAtSdOVp-sYjZyL8882tws3EhQ/edit?usp=sharing)

### Attending
  - Kris Becker
  - Audrie Fennema
  - Stuart Robbins
  - Ross Beyer
  - Jay Laura
  - Victor Silva
  - Kristin Berry

## Agenda / Notes
 - Action Items from last meeting
   - Add landing at .gov website, can redirect to github. Jesse will ensure this gets assigned and scheduled (ASC)
   - Come up with a way for people to apply to the TC (Jesse)
   - Generate a rough Authors list (Andrew)
   - Look at issue [#94](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/94) and [#95](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/95) (all)
   
## Notes
 - No status on the .gov redirect. 
 - Jesse - open the how to join issue. Discussion was that this looks good.
   - Make sure it is documented in the readme what the process is.
 - Discussion about having bios. We have git bios, so keep those up to date.
 - PR #3867 is open for the Authors.txt should be merged before the next meeting.
 - #94
   - Don’t really have a policy right now. We open/merge at inopportune times. If someone is feeling excited about this, we should change the default policy (which is 24 hours/2 reviews).
   - The ISIS repo inherits this unless the ISIS repo describes something different (which means that we should get a PR open to the contributing docs)
 - #95
   - Need to make the rules explicit for branches
   - Brief chat about what we are doing now
 - Communicating the 4.2+ releases
 - Long term support
   - Not only do missions freeze ISIS, but they also freeze hardware, etc.
   - Challenges to LTS are external changes, e.g., dependencies
   - Ross - wait and see
   - Kris - there is pain and suffering. ORex experience is that they keep their own version and then they continue to build. The team forked and then made changes. The pain is that the merge after 1+ years is quite challenging.
   - If the mission is going to dev in real time, keeping in sync is really valuable
   - What does the process of keeping in sync look like? Sometimes rebase, sometimes simply keep in a feature branch.
   - Perhaps it is valuable to work on drafting a best practices document for how an external team can go about making use of the code base AND contributing changes back to the repository. (Who?, I dunno. Jay, Kris, Jesse, Robin, ???)
   - HiRISE is on 3.5.2 in production. They have decided that they will pick a release and stick with it until they have a compelling reason (new feature) to update. In general, pipelines are frozen, but things come up. 
   - Not an expectation from the mission that ASC is making changes.
   - Hard to keep pace with the ISIS release cycle for some missions.
   - Victor - LROC pipelines are difficult to keep up with the changes. We don’t have the expectation that we are supporting older versions, but it would be good to know how long versions will be supported. Would be valuable to be able to communicate this to the science users on the team.
   - Python page has a good example of what the start/bug fix/stop cadence looks like.
   - Mission are not able to keep up with this pace of development (minor version increments).
   - Bug fixes on older revs might be necessary.
   - Getting other groups involved with how to submit issues. Seems like we have conflicting goals.
   - RC durations potentially too short for mission teams.
   - Velocity between revs are potentially too short


## Discussions for next meeting
 - Add landing at .gov website, can redirect to github. Jesse will ensure this gets assigned and scheduled (ASC)
 - Write an ISIS contributing document and PR into the ISIS3 repo. This should also cover feature branches and if/how the rules might differ from dev.
 - #89 - Jay - do this.


## Action Items
-

## Next Meeting
 - June 9th @ 12pm MST
