# ISIS TC Meeting March 11, 2021 @12PM PST / 1PM MST / 3PM ET

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending

- Jesse Mapel
- Lauren Aodram-Kershner
- Audrie Fennema
- Ross Beyer
- Robin Fergason
- Tim Giroux
- Austin Sanders
- Stuart Robbins
- Jay Laura
- Victor Silva
- Stuart Sides
- Kristin Berry

## Agenda / Notes

- Action Items from last meeting
  - Jesse : Schedule recurring calendar invite
    - Some issues with web invite not opening Teams App
      - Sometimes refreshing or reopening the webpage fixes this
    - If this continues we can make some changes to the meeting setup
  - All : Read [#133](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/133)
    - No further comments since last meeting
    - With no further comments, status quo will continue
      - Developers will continue as they are with the informal process + RFCs

- Release working group
  - Meeting 3/10/2021 meeting notes [#136](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/pull/136)
  - Split in users missions with pipelines vs individuals
    - Major differences
      - Need for validation
      - Timeframe needed for changes
    - Not entirely a dichotomy, e.g. early missions and larger projects with small groups of users
  - Validation
    - When new software is released pipeline groups need to re-validate outputs of pipelines
      - Then, check if changes are okay or not
    - Lack of commmunication about validation
      - What are the expected changes
      - What changes are users seeing
      - How do we share that?
    - Duplication of validation efforts
    - Need to find a way to reduce validation times
      - Checking differences is usually the most time consuming part
      - Expertise/work hours is also challenging
      - Validation time varies by mission
  - Data versioning needs
    - "old" software needs to work with new data
    - SPICE kernels and calibration data
    - Need for an explicit policy/guidelines
  - Trust in new releases is lacking
    - Everyone wants to check their own stuff
  - Back to the ISIS TC for what should be done
    - Development testing is largely targeted at specific apps/components
      - Some integration testing with category tests
      - Lack datasets and expertise to test entire pipelines
    - Better communication/coordination in the release and validation process
      - What validation is happening?
        - Running on test datasets and checking outputs at various stages
        - What programs are being run, on what data, and what outputs are being checked?
      - What are people finding?
    - Long term support
      - Even bug fix releases have to be re-validated
      - Specific versions to target for coordinated pipeline upgrades
      - Different groups want different functionality and versions
        - Hard to have a single unified version for all missions
      - Allowing individuals to back-port bugs and tag new releases off old feature versions
  - Need an "Official release schedule"
    - Update https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/wiki/Release-Schedule with actual schedule
  - Release Candidates
    - Low downloade
    - Some use in the community and institutions
    - Not many issues reported between RC and full release
    - Can we not do these?
      - Just have 4 releases a year'
    - Could go to 2 feature releases and 2 RCs a year
      - What's the difference between 2 releases + bug fixes vs 2 release + RCs?
  - People are concerned by the rate at which the version is ticking
    - Need to educate users that the minor/bug version ticking does not mean things will break

- Open discussion

## Discussions for next meeting

- How do we want to change releases?

## Action Items

- Jesse : Close #133 with comment about maintaining status quo
- Jesse : Updated release schedule page on wiki
- All : come up with some actionable things for the releases

## Next Meeting

- April 8th @ 1pm MST
  - Day light savings time (1PM CA & AZ)
