# ISIS TC Meeting January 12, 2021 @12PM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending

- Jesse Mapel
- Stuart Sides
- Kris Becker
- Jay Laura
- Kristin Berry
- Stuart Robbins
- Victor Silva
- Andrew Annex
- Audrie Fennema
- Ross Beyer

## Agenda / Notes

- Action Items from last meeting
  - Jesse : post an issue on the ISIS_TC about Epic changes to start discussion
    - Note done
    - Migrate to this month's action items

- Release Working Group
  - Meeting in December do not come together
  - Going to attempt to meet in January
  - Going to attempt more asynchronous discussion

- Open discussion
  - ISIS app to TSC
    - Questions about ISIS TC and Astrogeology arose from explanation of governance docs
      - See [here](https://github.com/planetarysoftware/TSC/blob/master/Applications/ISIS.md#governance)
    - Potential contradictions between governance docs and people's understanding
    - TSC will be taking a look at just the governance documents
    - If there are confusions or questions about the governance documents from within the TC, we should resolve them
    - Ask that people read through the TC Charter & come up with specific points
    - We can discuss this entirely within the ISIS TC
    - Questions relating to owernship & contribution
    - Better discussion about contribution acceptance
    - Who controls the direction of the project?
      - By the TC charter, people with commit right have control
      - The people with commit rights are majority ASC devs
      - Commits and PRs are overwhelmingly ASC devs
    - ASC has to maintain control of its employees
    - This process has not been exercised very much
    - TSC application says ASC maintins control of ISIS
      - Remove extra governance text, just point to Charter
    - The ASC does not commit to 100% maintain all code contributed to ISIS
      - ASC is funded to provide support and maintenance for ISIS at a significant level, but cannot guarantee all of it
      - Others are more than welcome to contribute to the support and maintenance
      - Support and maintenance largely happens organicly by the contributor base

  - Kakadu
    - Questions about if Kakadu can be replaced with OpenJPEG library
    - See (issue #4237)[https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS3/issues/4237]

  - Shared Anaconda install docs
    - Jesse is working on these
    - Coming to a wiki near you soon (tm)

  - conda-forge spice
    - Actually compiling the library now
    - ISIS is using this
    - Should help with Apple silicon stuff
      - Stuart R has a mac mini but hasn't been able to do much with the building ISIS stuff

## Discussions for next meeting

- Action Items from last meeting

## Action Items

- Jesse : Post issue about discussing significant changes to ISIS
- Jesse/other TSC : remove extra governance text from ISIS TC app to TSC
- Jesse : send out calendar invite for next meeting
- Jesse : setup doodle poll about new meeting time
- ALL : Re-read governance documents, particularly the charter

## Next Meeting

- February 9th @ 12pm MST
- Maybe a calendar would be good?
  - Jesse will send out a calendar invite for the next meeting
- Add different time zones
- We conflict with the OpenPlanetary Lunch which will be starting soon
  - Switch days, switch hours?
  - Push back an hour?
  - Doodle
