# ISIS TC Meeting May 13, 2021 @1PM PDT & MST / 4PM EDT

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending

- Jesse Mapel
- Lauren Adoram-Kershner
- Andrew Annex
- Audrie Fennema
- Kris Becker
- Jay laura
- Stuart Robbins
- Victor Silva
- Stuart Sides
- Robin Fergason
- Tim Giroux

## Agenda / Notes

- Action Items from last meeting
  - Kris: Upload MESSENGER scripts
    - Already done
    - https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/commit/fb07b3c5abb2aff168762024e6d7abaffe17ca14#commitcomment-49283818
    - Workflow that could become an integration test
    - Takes a handful of MDIS images and controls them

- Long Term Support
  - USGS is comfortable with 2 release "channels" sometimes 3
  - 1.5 year LTS with 6 month overlaps between LTS versions
  - 2.5 year LTS with 6 month overlaps between LTS versions
  - Development support
    - Dependencies
    - compartible Data
      - Test
      - Data area (SPICE, cal, etc)
    - New features would not be accepted on the LTS version/branch
  - Integration support
    - path to get code developed under LTS version/branch into dev
    - Git provides the ability to merge or re-base code developed on any branch to the dev branch
  - Dependency changes
    - Can dependencies be updated on the LTS version?
    - CentOS freezes their deps, except for security or critical bugs
    - conda-forge versioning would remain stable
    - Need to improve the ISIS build to more rigidly fix dependencies of a version
    - Conda makes fixing all dependencies very difficult
    - We can partial enforce this by pinning deps to minor versions
  - LTS to LTS version transition
    - We need a plan for this so that groups can plan around it
    - Could allow versions to be out for a while prior to providing LTS support
    - Pre-planned vs individually selected LTS versions
      - It would be good to plan around large changes coming in
      - Set cadence helps groups plan their transitions
      - Developers can plan their large changes around LTS releases
  - What about Major version ticks
    - Do we have an LTS for every major version?
    - This would push us to 3-4 versions
    - Likely beyond what we can support
    - Ticking multiple major versions between LTS would be bad
    - Discussing and planning this stuff ahead of time is critical
  - Flexability
    - More flexability means more difference in expectations
    - Allows us to work around things more easily
    - Can cause conflicts when expectations differ
```
dev ------- LTS 1.0 ------ bug ----- LTS 2.0 ----- bug ------------- bug
              \             \          \             \                \
LTS 1.0        \ -------- LTS 1.1 ------\---------- LTS 1.2 - EOL      \
                                         \             \                \
LTS 2.0                                   \ --------- LTS 2.1 -------- LTS 2.2
```
  - Time
    - How long should the LTS be supported?
      - 1 year seems too short for most missions
      - The cruise time frame for a missions makes a good rough estimate
      - 1.5-3 years for cruise
      - Outer planets cruise can be very long, 6+ years
      - Minimizing LTS ticks for long cruise missions would be helpful
    - How long should the overlap between LTS support be?
  - Backporting
    - If a bug fix is too complex to back-port can we skip it?
    - It would be good to guarantee
    - Longer LTS times means more bug fixes are hard to back-port
  - Need to talk to developers about technical aspects
    - 1.5-2.5 year LTS support
    - 0.5-1.0 year overlap

- Integration testing and validation

- Open discussion

## Discussions for next meeting

- Developer comments on LTS
- Integration testing and validation

## Action Items

- Schedule developer meeting about LTS needs

## Next Meeting

- June 10th @ 1pm MST
