# ISIS TC Meeting February 9, 2021 @11AM PST / 12PM MST / 2PM ET

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/dl/launcher/launcher.html?url=%2f_%23%2fl%2fmeetup-join%2f19%3ameeting_YWRkZjdiMGUtZWJlOC00OWMzLThlMTItZTk0Y2MyM2E1MWE0%40thread.v2%2f0%3fcontext%3d%257b%2522Tid%2522%253a%25220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%2522%252c%2522Oid%2522%253a%2522c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%2522%257d%26anon%3dtrue&type=meetup-join&deeplinkId=e54b3969-3c7f-4efb-9cad-ee99cf639f86&directDl=true&msLaunch=true&enableMobilePage=true&suppressPrompt=true)

### Attending

- Audrie Fennema
- Ross Beyer
- Kris Becker
- Stuart Robbins
- Stuart Sides
- Jesse Mapel
- Andrew Annex
- Lauren Adoram-Kershner

## Agenda / Notes

- Action Items from last meeting
  - Jesse : Post issue about discussing significant changes to ISIS
    - See [#133](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/133)
    - Also worth looking at [#132](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/132)
  - Jesse/other TSC : remove extra governance text from ISIS TC app to TSC
    - [TSC 3123](https://github.com/planetarysoftware/TSC/pull/123)
  - Jesse : send out calendar invite for next meeting
    - Should I do this again?
    - Yes
    - Outlook doesn't always play nice with other calendar tools
  - Jesse : setup doodle poll about new meeting time
  - ALL : Re-read governance documents, particularly the charter

- ISIS TC was accepted into the PlanetarySoftware TSC as a top level project

- USGS ASC IAA projects
  - Posted at [#132](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/132)
    - Prioritization input is closed, but comments on individual projects are still open
  - All of this will feed into a larger proposal process within the ASC.
    - Will take several months to complete
  - Jay will post some more final things at a later date

- Release Working Group
  - Jesse hasn't gotten to this yet
  - We likely won't get more input
  - Hoping to have something in the next 2 months

- New meeting time
  - Thursday March 11th at 11AM or 1PM are the ones everyone could make
  - Second Thursday of the month at 1PM MST works best for everyone
  - Send out recurring meeting invite at least until daylight savings time happens

- Open discussion

## Discussions for next meeting

- Action Items from last meeting

- Discuss [#133](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/133) if there is sufficient traffic on the issue.

## Action Items

- Jesse : Schedule recurring calendar invite
- Release Working Group : Get together and come up with at least something preliminary
- All : Read [#133](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/133)

## Next Meeting

- March 11th @ 1pm MST
