# ISIS Release Working Group Meeting November 20, 2020 @10AM MST

## [Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_YjI5YjJlOGUtODRkMC00ZjdhLWE4OWYtMDc0MDFmMjE3ODky%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f1499202-59f8-4bd1-b9ee-9bf5834ad31e%22%7d)

### Attending

- Jesse Mapel
- Victor Silva
- Kris Becker
- Audrie Fennema
- Emerson Speyerer

## Agenda / Notes

- release group charter
  - Requirements to be determined by the release working group on a per user type basis
    - How do these requirements meet user needs? User stories and/or narrative justification.
      - Small, a few sentences, user stories
    - Release cadence
    - Release stability
      - There are not bugs?
      - I don't need to update often?
      - Doesn't break current processes
        - Can I re-run my pipeline and get the same results
        - Intended differences
        - Unintended differences
        - Can I make an informed decision about whether or not I should upgrade before doing it?
      - Does it install without problems
      - Can I get bug fixes without getting new features that I don't want?
      - Let's see what different users mean/want for stability
    - Release lifecycle (when is a release considered unsupported?)
    - Backporting project contributions
    - Integrating project contributions
  - Should the release group get input from users outside of the TC
  - When should the release group report back to the TC?
    - A few months
  - Open an issue on the ISIS_TC repo for TC members & people involved in these discussions to contribute user stories.
    - Open the issue to collect user stories for a month
  - Group membership
    - Kris Becker
    - Victor Silva
    - Jesse Mapel
    - Audrie Fennema
    - Maybe an individual science user
    - Maybe a small team user

- Do we have enough information?
  - [Current stories](https://github.com/USGS-Astrogeology/ISIS_TC/issues/124)
    - 3 technical user stories (mission and asc)
    - 4 scientist stories
    - 2 developer writing code that depends on ISIS stories
  - Some stories still slated to come in
    - a handful from Kris and Victor (LROC and OREx)
  - Seems like a small snapshot
    - How does this relate to the broader downloads?
    - There is a large diversity of missions that use ISIS
  - Are all the active missions represented/contacted?
    - Many older missions are not updating their pipelines
      - Some, like HiRISE, are updating but at a slower cadance
    - Juno should be contacted
    - Reach out to Jaxa about Kaguya/SELENE
    - Reach out to Mars Odyssey
  - Do we have enough individual scientist input?
    - We have input from a lot of our more savvy scientists
    - What about scientists who have their team setup their environment?
    - LPSC or AGU session would be a good venue for this
  - What about PDARTs
    - There are PDARTs out there that want to add support for sensors/targets/data sets
    - PDART technical staff representation
    - This includes both software and SPICE
    - ASU has some history with contributing via PDART
      - Clementine
      - Apollo
  - Analysts
    - Interoperability with other systems
  - Comb LPSC abstracts
    - 34 in LPSC 2020
    - Potentially contact authors


- Requirements that haven't been brought up yet
  - Addressing major & feature versions
    - Whats the plan for major version support
  - Data sync with software release
  - Ease of installation
  - Managing installation for a group
    - Better docs, better tools
  - Release documentation
    - Changelogs
    - Program changes vs library changes
    - How are changes communicated
  - Development side of things
    - How the testing environment is made available
    - Availability of tools/data for testing a release

- Working Group operations
  - Meeting cadance
  - Final product?
    - Requirements document
      - Guides policy changes
      - Start a skeleton document and evolve
      - Less concerned with how

## Discussions for next meeting

- Action Items from last meeting

## Action Items

- Emerson - collect list of people from LPSC abstracts to contact
- Jesse - comb astrodiscuss for people to ask for stories
- Jesse - reach out to Juno, Jaxa about selene, & Mars Odyssey (THEMIS)
- Jesse - reach out to MARS 2020 TRN team
- Victor & Emerson - work on a PDART story
- Everyone - go through the user stories
- Kris - Look at how other software packages document their release requirements

## Next Meeting

- Friday, December 11th @ 10am
  - 2 weeks from now
  - Friday mornings seem like a good time for everyone's availability
